The Navy Marine Corps winning the Corps. We had to
make not only office space available to them, but
decide which of the Corps outfits would be
oriented as a Navy Marine outfit as opposed to Army
and Air Force. And I had been thinking about it and
trying to pull it out, Don Johnson and I. And
anyway, I put on the list E-2 to the Navy Marines.
And I'll have to admit to this day, I would have
never in my life done that if somebody had said,
hey, that's Reveille outfit. It never crossed my
mind because I would have never given Reveille to
anybody but an Army unit. I had that much Army in my
blood. So I gave the Navy Marines Reveille. And
there she sits. With what company had Reveley been
before that? It wasn't E2. Oh, so it was the
designation of E2. I just designated E2 would be
one of the companies that they can take
responsibility for. And, you know, it still had
Army and Air Force. We were all mismatched up. If a
cadet wanted to be in an Army-oriented outfit, it
didn't matter whether he had a contract or he was in
Air Force or whatever. So they could go to any
outfit they wanted to, and we didn't tell them they
had to be in that program. Alright, as the Navy and
Marine Corps began here, General Simpson soon
came, were there then some Navy and Marine Corps
officers also detached, assigned here? Oh yeah,
they opened up a big detachment there, Colonel
He just passed away over in the grad school. We'll
think of it later. Who were the, how easy was it for
the rest of the Corps to accept this addition? The
Corps didn't have any problem with it. Is that
right? Yeah. So that went well. Yeah, they were
just happy to say, you know, more. The Marines, the
Navy Marines program, they brought in a heck of a
lot of, scholarship signals from, you know, and
they'd take them all over the United States and
they'd tell them where to go. And they brought them
in here. So there were no problems with that at all?
No, not with the Corps. It was totally a service
oriented thing of protecting your service sort of
stuff. Now, and when you arrived, were there
already some black Corps members? I don't think
so. I don't remember any. Alright, during your
years, there were some black members of the Corps.
There were one or two showing up. There were not
many. Did you ever encounter any hazing problems
related to race? Were there any problems in the
Corps? I didn't know anything that was, you know,
nobody saying, you dirty Mexican or anything.
Never. I've never heard of any. Never. Everybody,
if you're in the Corps, you're a Corps. And it's
still that way now. Women in the Corps and men in the
Corps, there was a lot of problems with that. But I
still think most of them accept it and agree with it
and it seems to me that they're treated pretty
good. All right. While you were Commandant, were
there women in the Corps? That's me again. I was,
yes, I was. Please describe. I was pressured the
year before we started the program by the Army. And
Crossland was being pressured by the Air Force
saying, we want women in the program, in the ROTC.
You can have them in the ROTC. They don't have to be
in the Corps. Well, we don't want anybody in the
ROTC who wasn't in the Corps. Well, the Army called
me one day and said, great news for you. You're
going to be the test unit in the Fourth Army for
women. And we're going to start you out this fall.
And I said, no, sir. We're not going to start now
this fall. The university has not accepted that
program. And so they went to San Antonio to... St.
Mary's? No, the Trinity. Trinity? And that's
where they were the first in the state of Texas. So I
called, I talked to Dr. Williams too about this.
And Dr. Williams and I met one day and he says, You
know, the pressure is on everybody on this thing,
and I know it's on you, and they said, I think it's
time we took the move, don't you? And I said, yes,
sir. It's getting real tough for the Army for me. I
mean, they were really putting the screws on me,
and they were in a position to do it. And so were the
former students, but we took a big hassle from
former students, and I had many of my classmates
call me and were not too happy with me. What was
their basic argument against? They just didn't
want women in the Corps. What do they think would
be? I don't think there was any logic to it
whatsoever. Even with the guys in the Corps at that
time, they didn't want those females over there,
although they all had girlfriends and this, that,
and the other. You know, they hadn't recognized
that women played a big part in it. And they were
playing a big part in the military when I was, you
know, on active duty elsewhere. And they did a lot
of jobs. They did well and better than the men. But
it was not an easy task, so that was one of the real
problems I was working with. When did the women
first enter the Corps, do you remember?
Seventy-two. Seventy-two. And about how many
were there that year? About thirty. And Ruth Ann
Schumacher was the first to become a company. The
first year they had a male company commander. Ruth
Ann was the first. female commander and did a
marvelous job. Her brother was in the Corps, and
her father was a colonel, and she went in the
service, so she was the first female officer
commissioned into the regular Army through an
ROTC program. Nationally? In a military program.
Nationally. I'm sorry? You're saying
nationally, not just for A&M, but nationally. Oh,
right. We did it before West Point, VMI, I said it.
We were the first military school to integrate
women. What were some of the problems that you, as
the Commandant, had to cope with about women in the
Corps? Well, it was mostly with my former
students. I didn't have too much trouble with the
Corps. They didn't like it. But I flat-told them,
this is going to happen. And I want to know from you
how you give me a plan of integration, which I did.
They called it the Miranda Plan. And they got us a
war. They did a whole lot better job than I could
have done. And, of course, we were struggling
around figuring out how we were going to do this,
that, and the other. But most of the guidance came
from the core of how they would do it. And I
disagreed with some of them. For example, they
said there would never be in pinks and greens.
Never be in boots. I said, well, we're not talking
that now, and so forth. Well, anyway, we got it
going in the first year they didn't have uniforms.
They didn't have them because we didn't know how
many we were going to have, and one thing or
another, this was a, believe me, it was a big
problem. But we got around that thing and the
girls, one of them came over to me one day and said,
we need some recognition. Said, could we at least
have name tags? And I said, you bet. I'll have them
tomorrow and give me a list. And so we got those. And
so that was the only identification they had. And
they didn't live in the dorm that year because we
didn't know how many dorm spaces. But they had to
come out and do the breakfast mccall and all that
stuff. But the second year is when we went into the
uniform business. And the girls themselves
pretty much designed, they wanted to do the A-line
skirts. And I didn't know what an A-line from a
B-line was and all that sort of stuff. And the
people over at the warehouse over there did a
fantastic job.
They had their own company that second year? They
had, they were still, the entire time I was there,
they were not integrated into the W-1, and we
selected that W for women. And it was Army? Well,
Army was supervised. But it was, they could be in
any branch, any of the three branches? Oh yes, any
ROTC program they wanted to be in. And they were
pretty well evened out, Army and Air Force, later
on Navy. But we did put them over in the dorm too. And
we got the university to renovate it to put in
privacy stalls. And strangely enough, they
didn't like that. Took the urinals out and all
that. That baffled me. I'd have liked to have them
when I was a cadet to have a little privacy. They
wanted the same thing as the guys did. And after I
left, they moved them in their regular dormitory.
But, you know, it's hard to understand for me. But
anyway, after their second year, it's coming up
time to be pinks and greens. Well, of course, they
have no pinks and greens. Well, Nancy Hart, who I
commissioned later, came in that summer and we
talked about it. And I said, Nancy, you got a lot of
gumption, I think. And she said, yes, sir. And I
said, well, we're going to put you in green shirt
and pink skirt. And, uh, can you handle it? She
said, oh, yes, sir, you bet. And she showed up in
that thing and there was some hassle, but it was
accepted. And that's, uh, that was the start of
giving them those privileges. Uh, I never
considered boats, uh, and I don't like them now. I
just don't think it looks good, but that's,
there'll be no small. But, uh, anyway, the, uh, The
clothing people, they really did a fantastic job
because we had no idea, and I certainly had none.
And I had a real problem looking after the girls
because I couldn't really go into the dorms. And I
guess some of the male guys did, I don't know, but I
would never go in without a female accompanying
me. But I told the Army, I said, okay, you want me to
do this program, you get me a woman officer. And
they had a tough time getting me one and it hurt me,
but they did. I got one pretty fast, a young
lieutenant named Holtzman. What?
H-O-L-T-Z-M-A-N, Teresa Holtzman. Teresa
Holtzman. She was a Yankee girl, went to college in
the North and talked like one. and she was just as
sweet as she could be, and I'm not saying that in a
male-female situation, but she really worked
with those gals, and she brought them a long way,
and I think they cared a lot about her, and she just
did a fabulous job, and maybe later on brought one
in too, but boy, we needed them bad, and they'd come
to me with the, or this A-line skirt on it, and they
were wearing these short things anyway, and one of
them come in one day in my office, they'd come in a
lot of times to talk, and sitting there, I finally
just had to say, I know her name, I'd say, look, I
don't want to see the color of your underwear.
Would you please pull your skirt down? Now, that's
pretty embarrassing to have to do, and we laughed
about it later, and I did, but I didn't want to
embarrass her, but But anyway, Theresa was able to
do the little things, but they were big things for
me. It was hard for a man to handle. What kind of
pranks did the male corps members attempt on the
females? They gave them a lot of hassle. I don't
know everything, but I do know I got a call one time
that the company C2, who were then at that time in
Dorm 3, was mooning the girls over in dorm two, and
they were mooning them back. And I had to get into
the moon fight, but that was pretty easy to settle.
In the dining halls, when they'd have a food fight,
did they ever throw stuff at the girls? I'm not
aware of any of that. I'm not even aware of food
fights in the dining hall where I had to knock it at
girls. Oh, really? Oh, OK. I don't know whether I
had them or not. Good. And out on the drill field,
did they ever do anything to harass the females?
Not to my knowledge, but I'm sure they gave them a
hard time. I mean, as long as they were in a room
unit, they leaned on each other. And I did not
integrate them into the male units, so that was
done after my time.
I was not named in the lawsuit either. I don't know
why, but maybe because I was the one that was trying
to push a program. And poor old Jim Woodall got the
hassle of it because that was the time I retired.
But I got along with them well, and my wife and I
attended their out-of-date functions when they
invited us. And they were living in, most of them in
one of these dorm complexes off campus. And they
had a party over there one time and I went to it. They
asked my wife, would the colonel get real mad if we
took him to the quad in the swimming pool? And she
said, no, if you just tell him so he can get his boots
off and all that stuff. So they carried me and
dumped me in there. The girls did? Yes. And they did
the same thing the guys do, because on the way to
that swimming pool, after I got out, I told my wife
they can take me again, because they unzipped my
pants and somebody reached in. I said, let them
take me again. And she said, what part? She said, no
way. So they got the spirit pretty fast, I guess. I
don't know who it was. I communicate with two or
three of them. Robin Gibson, General Gibson was
her father. He was an Ivy II star then. Now she's
married to one of the guys who was on the Corps
staff. She's a lieutenant colonel in the reserve
now. She's sitting on after duty as well. Her
husband is going to become a general pretty soon, I
think, pretty quickly. She was a big talker. She
was just an inspiration. Looking back on
coeducation in the Corps, what did we do well and
what could we have done better?
I don't know how we would have gotten it done
easier.
It would have been better, I suppose, if we'd had a
female officer in the beginning. It took several
months to get one down here, a female active
officer, because the Corps males, you know, would
quote the commander and this, that, and the other.
I don't really know what went on over there. I never
went into the dorm after it was occupied. And I did,
you know, there were other girls over there, they
didn't fill up the dormitory, and a lot of them
asked for that dorm for some reason. I don't know
whether they just wanted to be in a core dorm, core
type, and they were cheaper than they were then.
You're saying civilian girls. Right, right. And I
did from time to time get phone calls from, from the
parents of those girls. You know, every once in a
while somebody's parents can't get in touch with
them. And you know, as well as I do, usually they're
out with somebody else and so forth, which I knew
about. And this one parent was so devastated, and
something has happened to his daughter, and I
finally, you know, I was going to tell him, I
finally said, I'm a father, and I have a daughter,
and you have a right to know, too, that she's okay.
She's just not in her own room. That's what
happens. I mean, you can't do much about that. But
I'm glad to have been there in that part of A&M's
history. I'm sorry for half of the cause, but And
looking back on it, it wasn't all that bad, but it
was a mean time. Let's see, secret fraternities
and so forth. I never, you're asking, I knew
nothing about anything. And there was no
investigation during your time about that? No.
Okay. Other than Bob Melcher, I don't know what he
was doing, but he asked me questions sort of like
that. I just, I never knew anything like that.
Because I think after that there was a, after
your... I think there might have been some under
Woodall because I do have one of those little
mimeographed letters that they put out, but I
don't know whether that was organized or not. And
Jim Woodall took one of the whatever happened, I
imagine,
and he was a good man. He was a good man. I'm sorry I
had to leave him with those problems, but the time
came when the Army told me to leave. When you were
Commandant, what was it like to be responsible for
a Corps trip? Well, it wasn't any problem. Usually
Jerry Maynard, the university employee, sent him
up ahead of time to make arrangements with the
police and all those people and tell them how to get
a hold of him in case one of the guys was in trouble or
got hurt or anything else. So we manned a phone and
told the Corps, you know, if you need somebody,
call this phone. The military people were
required to go on these court trips just for the
game, I mean for the marching band. We had no money
to pay them. The Army would not give me per diem
money. The Navy had it. They could pay their
people. All I could get were the free football, two
free football game tickets and we'd give them $10
apiece. We had no trouble filling it because I say
most of the officers were Aggies. And they would
have probably paid us to go. And at least I never had
any trouble filling up the Army officer. And my
responsibility in those things was primarily,
again, taking care of the reviewing officer,
particularly Dr. Williams, which usually wasn't
too much of a problem. But one year I didn't know he
was going to fly up there in the old airport love
field. And that the university didn't send a car,
and I got a call from the elder, could I pick him up?
And I said, yeah, I'll pick him up when we get in.
Well, I was in my Vega, and that's all I had. I wasn't
in my pickup. And he wasn't too charmed with riding
in my Vega, and he told me, he said, don't ever pick
me up in my little car like this again. And I said,
yes, sir. And from then on, I'd had a university
vehicle with me. Now, did you go to just about every
Corps trip? Oh, yeah. Of all the four places where
the Corps went on those trips, which ones were the
most pleasant and which ones were the most
difficult? Well, Austin, obviously, was always
difficult. Is that right? Yes. Describe it. Well,
half of the kids and the other hundreds or
whatever, I don't know what I want to call them, And
they'd boo them and so forth. But Dallas-Fort
Worth, man, the bag is all the way up there.
Houston?
Houston was always great. That was, during my
time, that was organized by old Harris, George
Harris, moving stories. George was a big
benefactor of the university. And he always got
the review and stand, got the clearance and paid
the thousand dollars that we had to pay the city and
all that kind of stuff. But Houston, they liked the
Aggies too. We'll have about a half or more Aggies
in Houston anyway. And
the local authorities cooperated? Yes, we never,
never had any. They liked the Aggies too. The
policemen liked the Aggies because of the uniform
and all that stuff. To me, there's very little
difference between the mentality of police and
military anyway. Maybe the military officers
might be a little better educated, but they still
have the same mentality. Do you remember any other
out-of-town football games during your
commandant years that you went to? Well, I
remember
there was a rice game when Dr. Vandiver did his
thing. I thought we were going to have a real, real
problem. And I was in the stands, and I had a general
officer with me, and I was in the uniform. But what
really started it was these guys from Rice come out
with T-shirts where they printed, fuck me, and I'm
going to pardon the language in there, but that's
what it said, which was very offensive, not to me as
an Aggie, but to me as a person. And then they'd blow
in the whistle, and the band march, They were
wearing German helmets and had swastikas. I'm
just amazed that they didn't go out of those
things. Now, you were then campus security. You
weren't commandant. I was commandant then. Oh,
really? Because that's AD... When I was coming
out, no, it wasn't, it was 70... It might have been
that, I might have had my years wrong. Oh, it was
Jarvis Miller. Yeah, yeah. Wasn't Vandiver.
Vandiver's the one who directed the Rice Band that
time. That's right, that's right. I got my stories
wrong. And if I'm not mistaken, after the game was
over, didn't some of us have to kind of go and help
keep Aggies away from the Rice Band? Right, that
did happen. Yeah. What about, were there any trips
to, say, to West Point or any other out-of-town big
games along the way that you remember? We
didn't... Well, the kids didn't go to these games
too much back then. The band couldn't go to too many
of them. It was a financial thing. And I never
really went to any other than the Corps trip games
and maybe the Baylor game and one time to Lubbock
when Don Johnson was still on flight pay and he'd do
a cross country and we'd go in an Army aircraft.
And incidentally, Don was probably the smartest
thing I ever did as Commandant. He was already, you
know, there under McCoy and he was working in the
office and he worked for me a little while, a couple
of years, and then he was transferred still on
active duty. And he was transferred to an Army
medical board in Pennsylvania and they dissolved
the board. And we were talking on the phone one day,
and I said, where are you going now, Don? They said,
I don't know. I said, would you like to come back
down here? Yeah, but they never met me. And I said,
well, I don't know whether or not, but if you want to
come back, let me give it a try. Well, I really knew a
lot of people. You know, when you go through the
Army War College, you make contact. And I knew
quite a few people in the Pentagon. And I started
calling around. Lo and behold, he called me one day
and said, hey, I got orders. Come there now. So
anyway, we got him back down. Then when he was a
reserve officer, so he had to retire after 20. And I
said, do you want to stay on? I'll see if I can get a
position. And so I was able to get that position for
him. And what position did you? The one he's in
right now, assistant to the commandant. Yeah. And
what were the duties of the assistant to the
commandant, in fact? All the dirty jobs,
disciplinary program Most of the coordination of
core activities and that sort of stuff, just about
anything you can think of Don did. And he's well
deserving of the recognition that he has. He's a
fantastic person. And I think these are the glue
that has held that office together.
Describe how Parsons Mounted Cavalry came about.
Oh, that's right. Let's see. Well, let's see. I
think this was in 71, no, 72. Three guys came in to
see me and wanted to know if they'd been thinking
about mounted units and this, that, and the other
and how I feel about it. I said, well, you know, we
used to have them. It sounded like a pretty good
idea. But I said, well, how would it be? Do you think
we could bring three horses in behind the Corps and
one of the marching units? And I said, let me talk to
Corps commander, but I think we can handle that.
And so anyway, they did that. And the crowd seemed
to like it a little bit. And so then we got together
after that was over. They said, we really want to
start this. What are your thoughts? And so I said,
well, if we do it, I think it should be the same as RVs
and everything else and activity oriented. But I
think that it should not be open to company
commanders or RVs. And they said, why? And I said,
because these are already people that are in
positions of responsibility and pride and so
forth and all these others are good aggies, too,
and let them have another outlet, which happened
to be the cow. It isn't that way now, but that's the
way it was originally. But anyway, I said, what do
you need? And they said, well, we need some seed
money. And I said, how much? And they said 10,000. I
went over to see Buck Wires. And I had that money
before I walked out of his office. I mean, he was
just overjoyed. And so Buck, you know, stood
behind us and got us going. Dean Fritz, John Fritz,
I'm sure you know him, got wind of it, and he, gosh,
what he's done for the cows, nobody can imagine,
and money, and whatever.
So you started with three horses. Three cows,
well, the next year, we put them on the field. How
many? I think 28, 30, something like that load. And
they were their own horses? They had to have access
to their own horse. It had to be a bale saw. They had
to be able to financially take care of it. The
university allowed us to use a strip of land out of
Brownfield and there was an old army shelter
there. Ten acres we could use. And they worked real
hard out there and they were the real because we
were going out and taking care of them. That's a
long way out on the bike, and training and
everything else. I went out there a lot of times,
and my wife too. She loved to ride, and she rode with
them out to nowhere else for us. But we got booted
out of there. The engineer said they had to have
that back. I don't believe it to this day, but they
booted us over what they call a hernia hill which
College Station now has a directory and a bunch of
aggers owned it and they let them use that for a
couple of years and then sold it to College
Station. Then they bumped them out in the woods out
there near the green where they are now and close to
the arena. Give us two acres out there fully wooded
and said this is all we can do. And so we started
trying to clear it and build a barn and this, that,
and the other. And when I say we, that's physically
we and Army officers and some of the other kids that
were around. But meanwhile,
we all had moved in and had a good relationship with
Dr. Miller. And he got on a wagon there with Dr.
Miller and they went up to, O.D. Butler's office
and told them they wanted the present location.
You may know this story. And anyway, O.D. said, Dr.
Miller, we can spare that piece of property from
the agriculture department or whatever. And Dr.
Miller said to him, Jim related this to me, that
says, O.D., you're a general in the reserve,
aren't you? And he said, yes, I am. You know that.
And he says, when you get an order from your general
boss, what do you do? And he says, I salute and say,
yes, sir, and do it. And he says, what are you going
to do now? Yes, sir, and salute him. And we got the
land. And Jim was really, and Dr. Miller was really
responsible for that. And that was a godsend. I
don't think Cal would be around if it wasn't for
that. And what are some of the proudest moments you
remember about the cavalry or the mounted...
Well, of course, I was overwhelmed when the...